Total 160 credits which can be achieved by opting courses offered by Department as well as the institute electives. And 180 for honours.
Grading is relative. As the name suggests, it means that your result is judged on the basis of your performance relative to the class. There is a specific mathematical formula  which is used to calculate your grade in the course. This grade later translates into your grade point average of all the courses you have taken in a semester.
GPA or Grade Point Average is a rating that is used to judge your academic performance. You are given a grade in each course after completion. You multiply the grades’ values with the corresponding courses’ credit and add all of them up. Now you divide it by the sum of credits, and you get your grade point average.
Branch can be changed after one semester, students with the highest CGPA are given the priority, where AIR is used to break the tie. 
Top 25% students of a branch are eligigble for MCM, whose parent's income is less than rupees 4.5 lakhs per annum. Tution fee is refunded as well as 10k stipend is given per year.
Every semester students are eligible to loan textbooks from college library for a period of 4 months. 
Honors are Minors courses are specialised courses which can be taken by any student having CGPA greater than 7.5, after 3-2 and get a special degree. Honors is department specific while Minors can be taken in any department offering the same. 
75% attendance is required STRICTLY. If you are ineligible, you get a Sem Back, and you have to repeat the course after a year.
A credit is a number assigned to a course which a students gets after he passes the course.
Before the start of each semester a day is assigned for each semester. The exact date can be known from the academic calendar. 
Subject registration is done in between semester to register for courses you take in the next semester. 
Late subject registraion is to be done for courses after you missed subject registration. A fine of 1000 rupees is imposed for late subject registration.
One can register late for a semester by paying a 1000 rupees fine after the date has paased. Late registration is done at Academic Section, Main Building in office hours.
Late registration fees can be paid via challan or online through SBI Collect in "Other Fees" section.
Semester registration fees can be paid via challan or online through SBI Collect or through PNB Online Banking.
Loan can be availed from SBI or PNB to pay semester fees, grade sheet of previous semester is required by the bank, or in case of first semester, the AIR.
One can obtain a course change form from the academic section and get it signed by the course co-ordinator. Courses can be changed within first 3 weeks of the start of the semester.
One can obtain a course drop form from the academic section and get it signed by the course co-ordinator. Courses can be dropped latest by 2 weeks after the mid-sem exams. Warning : Dropping a course may cause you to losing credits and you may not fulfill degree requirements.
One can give re-exam after the semester break and pass with the minimum grade. If one fails re-exam he/ she has to repeat the course next year.
It takes usually 4 years if you pass all the courses. It can be extended upto max 6 years.
Four documents are required : 1)- Change of name affidavit attested by notary. 2)- Present ID proof issued by GOI bearing your correct name. 3)- Publication in your home state gazette reflecting your name change status. 4)- Advertisement of name change in 2 daily newspapers. Submit these to the Assistant Registrar along with name change application.
You need to get a bonafide certi from the institute and apply at Dehradun PSK.
Get signed affidavit of your name from Roorkee Local Court near Bus Stand for a new ID Card, and then apply at Main Building.
You are eligible for re-exams only on medical grounds. This criteria is applicable when you have missed ALL of the exams and not some.
Disciplinary action may vary with the severity of your indiscipline ranging from yoga classes to explusion from institute.
You have to earn minimum 160 credits for getting your degree.
Educational tour is a zero credit course offered in Junior Year in which students have to visit some industry which is related to their major. It is a great learning experience and this opportunity is utilised in spending time out with batchmates.
For changing your departmental elective, you have to first get permission from the course instructor (of both the courses i.e one you are leaving and one you intend to join), and then get it approved by Head of Department.
Unlike departmental elective, changing institute elective is quite tough. You have to get permission from both the course cordinators(i.e one you are leaving and one you intend to join) and then get it approved by the academic section. You may even have to pay Rs1000 if you are applying for change after a specified period.
You have to write a formal application letter stating your causes and get it signed by course cordinator, Head of your department and Dean Academic affairs.
You have to write a formal application letter stating your causes and get it signed by course cordinator, Head of your department and Dean Academic affairs.
You have to stay in college till the results are declared officially and if you have a back you will get proper forms from your department which you have to submit with a Demand draft.
After re-exam you will pass the subject with a chauggi(4). Your marks in re-exam won't be considered for grading, you are supposed the pass the exam only.
If you have a back and you want to avoid 'D' then you have to repeat the course with your Juniors.
No, Only those who fail a course because of bad performance in exam are elligible for re-exam. In case of attendance back you have to repeat the course with your Juniors.
You should contact your prof. immediately and beg for his mercy. If you are unable to convince him/her, beg to your Head of Department. At last contact Dean academic affairs and ask him to permit you to appear in exams,
O-10 (Outstanding)           A  -> 10       B+  -> 9     B  -> 8    C+  -> 7    C  -> 6     D+  -> 5     D  -> 4    F-> Fail
Work hard, and play hard.
You can apply for branch change around the ETEs of your first semester. There will be a notice on channeli at that time. There are fixed number of slots for branch changers for every branch. The student with high SG in his first semester is given preference.
The person with better JEE(Advanced) rank is given preference. tu
Yes. There are seats reserved for branch change.


Normally one credit is assigned to one hour lecture or one hour tutorial or two hours of practical classes.
It helps the student to develop new techniques and experimental findings.
No . It does not imply any legal commitment.
Joint admisson board(It conduct admissions of all students who qualified JEE)
Only if the course is approved by dean academics or the chairman,DAPC/CAPC
Yes, except the B.Arch students.
Numbers corresponds to number of hours assigned weekly in the order as Lecture Tutorial and Practicals.
Through supervision of quality of work carried out,report submission and presentation
JEE Advanced rank
Extra 10 days are allowed to register without any late fees.
Pay 100/- in accounts section.  Place the receipt in DOSW office register and write your name
Go to accounts section. Pay 2500/- or pay online in IIT Roorkee other fee category (certificate). Submit the receipt in academic section. Get an application signed by the HOD.  Collect your transcript in one week from academic section
Coordinating Committee of Bhawans which maintains all the financial and other records.
Pay in Accounts section. Make a affidavit stating that you lost your id card and also a FIR. Submit the receipt along with application in DOSW office.
 Formal purposes may include – PhD completion get-together inviting professors of the department. Get it approved by the concerned faculty and HOD.   Submit at reception
Pay Rs. 1000 for each grade sheet. Write an application and get it signed by the HOD. Submit along with FIR in academic section.
Summer Undergraduate Research Award. You get a stipend of 500 per week. Your hostel fee gets refunded after you submit the report. You get a maximum of 10,000/- for your project expenses which are reimbursed after you submit the bills approved by your supervisor along with the report.
1)- Dean of Student Welfare (DOSW) 2)-Dean Academics 3)-Dean Finance and Planning 4)-Dean International Students 5)-Dean Administration 6)-Dean Alumni and International Affairs 7)-Academic Section 8)-Finance and Accounts Section 9)-CCB Office 10)-Security Office 11)-GATE Office 12)-JEE office 13)-Director and Deputy Director 14)-SRIC Office 
1)- Only in case when the outside doctor is referred by a doctor in the institute hospital by getting it written in the medical booklet and approval by the CMO. 2)- The bills must be submitted along with copy of the reference in medical booklet.
1)- Write an application approved by Professor, HOD and attach it along with conference funding form at Dean Alumini office. 2)-  Proof of acceptance from the website or official letter with letter head of the convener of the conference. 3)-  The fees of registration and travel cost receipt must be submitted too. Max 50000 4)- Also submit the paper along with Turnitin report (software in library) along with application form well in advanced of the conference dates in alumini office.
1)-  Minimum CGPA of 7.5 for audit. 2)- No criteria for Credit. Total credit should not cross the limit. 3)- Get approval by Course Coordinator 4)- Submit to academic section.
1)- Personal  a)- Enquire at the academic section  b)-  In case of not filling a form before the last date, pay the late fee  c)-  Submit the receipt to the academic section.  d)- In case of mistake from their side, get the application approved from the HOD and submit to academic section  OR  2)- Collective (Most of the class)  a)- Write an application to dean academics stating the issue  b)-  Get it signed by DAPC Chairman and HOD  c)- Submit to Academic Section
Get in contact with a project incharge/supervisor. Apply to the official portal when a notice is displayed on Channel I or Department notice board. Present your idea on the day of presentation in front of Dean SRIC in SRIC office.
No formal procedure. Just inform the mess gatekeeper about your stay and enter your details in the register.
You can only stay only in case 1) You are involved in a project at IIT Roorkee. 2) In a training/intern nearby in a radius of 50 km. Get a approval letter from your project supervisor and an application forwarded by HOD.   Pay the fees according to the number of days of stay in accounts section (Mess/ Hostel).
4PM to 6PM
Prepare an itinerary with approval from HOD and Dean Acads.   Fill the form for Field Trip approved by HOD and DOSW. n accordance with the itinerary make an approximate budget suggesting the various cost at each point of the trip. Approved by HOD and OC of trip.  Talk to the auditor of dean finance and planning. Get his approval.  Get the approval of Dean Finance. Submit to accounts section.  A check will be issued on the name of Officer in-charge of the trip from your department. 
Only caution money will be refunded.
Search through the alumni database.
No, you have to choose one between the two of them.
Just as the name suggests, this place is designed for IITR junta to tinker with ideas. Developed in association with Oxigen, with the grand vision of producing 100 entrepreneurs from the campus, the tinkering lab was inaugurated by Shri. Manohar Parrikar, Hon Defence minister on 22nd May 2016. In future, you are definitely going to witness fortune 500 companies talking about their origins in this lab.
Get an Application signed by the HOD of the EC&CSE Department and hand it over to the caretaker for the available slots and dates.
Alpahar is the oldest eatery on campus, rumored to have been here for nearly half a century. Last year in mid November, Alpahar was shifted from the heart of the campus to its present location near Khosla International House. 
Open from 11AM – 2PM and from 5PM-9PM.
The girls have to back by 11PM to their respective hostels.
Rajiv, Rajendra, Radhakrishnan(RKB), Ganga, Cautley, Azad, Govind, Ravindra and Jawahar
Sarojini and Kasturba
14:00 to 02:00 hrs
09:00 to 21:00 hrs
Sagar, Prakash, Desi Tadka, Royal Palace, Olive, Food Point, Center Point, Spice Club
BasketBall, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Badminton, Volleyball, TT, Football, Hockey, Cricket, Swimming
You can appear for the swimming test which is held at the swimming pool. Once you qualify, you get your card for daily access to the pool.
ICC can be used to access high speed internet and resources for education and research purposes. Open from 09:00 to 21:00 hrs. Entry permitted only by Insti ID.
You can go to Information Super Highway Centre which is near ICC and get your new/ modified username and password, from a guy who sits there. The process is extremely simple and it takes no more than a minute.
It is located near CBRI. One can reach it by walking down the slope of the Jawahar Bhawan Road and taking a right turn.
There is the university canteen (Alpahar), Georgia, CBRI and every hostel has its own one.
The route is: Go the main gate near Kasturba Bhawan, walk down the road on the right of the gate. Keep following the road until you reach the Solanipuram Gate, then take a right turn and follow the narrow lane. Walking down a few metres down the road, you'll see TinTin on the right.
Senate Steps, Library Steps, Hostel common room, MAC, CCD, Georgia, Main Building Lawn, Sattviko Idea Cafe
Old Nesci is behind Sports Complex, little farther from squash court.
Old Nesci, CBRI canteen, Tintin, Behind Baski Court, Area near Mech Dept., MAC rooftop
Hotels Divine and Dynasty.
From outside Rajeev looks good; Jawahar overall based on locaton and room size.
Govind Bhawan( Oldest among all the bhawans ) but due to recent fall of balconies in Ravindra Bhawan it is another deserving candidate. 
Amul Parlour is located in the ground floor in MAC
PNB: Near Georgia and MAC; SBI:Near Main Building(Opposite to MGCL), Cautley Bhawan, CBRI and MAC 
Souvenir Shop is located in first Floor MAC
There is an HP outlet in first floor MAC
Doctors will be available on specific slots on Mon to Sat and a good for nothing compounder will be avialble 24 hrs who can certainly give you a pain killer for every ailment
Railway Counter can be found behind Govind Bhawan, near IITR hospital
Physiotherapy Center is on first floor IITR hospital.
Cobblers can be found opposite Ravindra Bhawan and near CBRI gate.
Cycle repair shops can be found near Georgia and Rajendra Bhawan.
Convocation hall is known hanger
OATs are located inside the MAC and opposite to swiming pool
HEC office is located in third floor MAC
SDSLabs is a student group that constantly tries to innovate and foster technical activities in campus. Our members work in C++, Go, PHP, Ruby, Node.js, Python, sometimes even delving into socket level programming.They conduct lectures and workshops on all these topics and also conduct monthly competitions on our various self developed applications.
IMG is a group of students who try to make the digital stay of people at IITR as comfortable as possible.To set up a robust and effective information base in IIT Roorke, invention, development and maintenance of advanced information technologies, including computer systems, software and database systems. Translation of these advanced technologies into the assets of IIT Roorkee, through professional solutions.
The National Cadet Corps plays a significant part in moulding a person's character. It fosters the spirit of teamwork and man-management and leads to the development of a more pleasing overall personality.Thus NCC strives to achieve the following objectives:To channelize the energy and dynamism of young men towards activities beneficial to them and to the society.Constructive use of leisure time, wholesome recreation, wide cultural sympathies, abiding social consciousness and an alert min
With the goal to work for the betterment of society and instill the spirit of social service among the young students, IIT Roorkee established NSS at institute level, headed by Dean of Students Welfare, IIT Roorkee.Currently, NSS, IIT Roorkee has over 700 active members from different disciplines, working rigorously for community health care, literacy drives, and environmental protection.
The Mountaineering & Trekking Club founded in 1971 was the forerunner of the Himalayan Explorers' Club (HEC). Between 1971 & 1974 the Institute Sports Association nurtured the Mountaineering & Trekking Club which fostered all mountaineering, trekking and outward bound activities amongst science, engineering and professional student community of the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee.
The communique for the inquisitive, neophillic and largely tech savvy junta of IITR. It is a one of a kind magazine that shares your passion for new gadgets, latest technology and breakthroughs in science. Established in 2009, this magazine has grown by leaps and bounds.Geek gazette consists of a team of intelligentsia, myth-busters, technocrats, and web surfers working round the clock to bring to you a periodical, fully loaded with the most intriguing articles, blatant product reviews, campus tech-tends, dialogues with the campus technotopians and a precis of the latest from the world of science and technology in the word of the layman.
Student's Affairs Council is a student led, active organization that engages with, empowers and represents the diverse student population of IIT Roorkee.The Student Affairs Council is responsible for developing, reviewing, and evaluating plans and setting directions for student affairs in accordance with the vision, mission and strategic plan of the college. It is the focal point of campus life here at IIT Roorkee which not only provides guidance and leadership to student affairs but also identifies student needs and develop strategies addressing their issues. SAC primarily fosters the coordination and communication between system institution and student body and make sure your opinions are being heard.
"The Cul-Soc", as it is popularly referred to as, is a student body which is responsible for all the cultural events in the Institute round the year. It comprises of seven sections which take care of the varied fields of cultural events. 
It is the section which makes the voice of the cultural society audible, be it a Choreo program or a Music section presentation.
It organizes the dance & choreography programs happens to be the most vibrant section of the society. 
It is the section which has been staging plays of unbeatable standard since its inception and is known for its discipline and order. 
This section illuminates all the stage shows done by the society. All the performing sections are in dark without the Light section.
It keeps ticking the score board of cultural performance throughout the year with its brain storming and witty events. 
The section which has been bringing the range of melodies from Indian classical to Western hard rock. 
This most nascent section of the society was conceived to take care of all the offstage tasks before and after any event. It has emerged as a backbone of the cultural society tying up all the sections together. 
Watch Out! is the campus news body of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee. We are a student run group that functions under the aegis of the Cultural Council, IIT Roorkee. Watch Out! is financially independent of IIT Roorkee and is supported by advertising revenues. 26 years after it’s conception, WatchOut! has grown to offer news and commentary from around the campus on it’s website in conjunction with a semesterly print issue.
The official literary magazine of the campus, Kshitij is now in its 24th year of existence. Initially started as a Hindi wall magazine to promote Hindi literature among research students, it has now evolved into a print magazine with separate editorial teams for English and Hindi, printing short stories and poetry in 2-3 issues annually. There is also a special Open Editorial, through which students who are not members can contribute. To support these, there is a Finance Cell that oversees sponsorship and a Design Cell to bring it all together. True to its origins, Kshitij also creates a special Hindi Wall Magazine to commemorate Hindi Diwas every year, which is displayed as part of the exhibition in the Central Library. Kshitij also organizes Kavyanjali — a Hindi poetry recitation evening — yearly. 
Cinesec is dedicated in capturing imagination on camera and turning them into videos. They publish vibrant categories of videos including short movies, campus news and trendz, interviews ,animations, info-videos ,gags, events coverage and feedbacks. The section deals in various aspects of movie making such as script writing, editing, direction, cinematography, production and a lot more.
Civil Engineering Consortium is a Student Affair Committee of Department of Civil Engineering, that is responsible to promote a safe and intellectually stimulating learning environment that encourages not only the academic success of civil engineering students but also focus on personal development, sports and other extracurricular student activities.
The Entrepreneurship Development Cell of IIT-Roorkee, commonly known as EDC, has been established with the objective of creating, fostering and promoting the spirit of entrepreneurship among the youth of the nation. We undertake various initiatives for the same. Some of them are Prerna Yatra, Start-up internship program, TEDx, Webinars, Guest lectures, workshops and other games and competitions.EDC aims at developing the spirit of entrepreneurship among the students of IIT Roorkee. It wants not only to ignite the minds but also to nurture the ideas of one of the most talented students of India. EDC is committed to build a strong platform for the budding entrepreneurs. The vision is to guide the students to take entrepreneurship as a career, as a path to success, as a journey of wisdom.
IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) is a non-profit organization and is the world's leading professional association for the advancement of technology. IEEE Student Branch gives students the opportunity to meet and learn from fellow students, as well as faculty members and professionals in the field. 
Electrical Engineering Students' Society is a student-run body composed of Electrical Engineering students from all the years. They aim to promote interaction amongst all the students and the faculty of the department. They strive to provide any kind of assistance that enhances the quality of students' stay at the campus.They organize guest lectures, contests, interactive sessions and many more such events that bring all the members of our department together.
Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Students Society (MIESS) is officially recognized organization of students of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering department which coordinate between students and department staff. It was established in 1980s to provide students a medium to put their views on the desk of faculty.It organizes a wide range of technical and non-technical events spread evenly throughout the year.
Society of Automotive Engineers IIT Roorkee collegiate chapter was established in 2001 with the collective effort of a group of students who had a strong urge to complement the theoretical knowledge imparted in the classroom, with emphasis on the practical aspects of engineering. With a humble beginning, SAE IIT-R has grown steadily to it present strength of more than 400 members and is one of the most active and popular technical societies in the campus.
ASME IIT Roorkee Student Section, the first and leading Chapter of ASME in India, was officially registered as a society in Feb 2007 by some enthusiastic students of MIED. Since then, they have been working continuously towards providing the students in the campus a better insight to technology and exposure to practical work through various events throughout the year.
The IIT Roorkee ACM Student Chapter is an official student body of IIT Roorkee concerned with fostering general and scientific interests in students in the area of Computer Science. The chapter organizes a plethora of events which cover most of the fields of the computer science domain. These include hackathons, guest lectures, workshops, coding contests etc.The primary mission of the IIT Roorkee ACM Student Chapter is to provide a series of lectures, events, and a platform to bring together computing enthusiasts across the campus to promote the education and professional development of students.
Yes you can but you have to ask the mess receptionist and pay an amount of Rs.55 for it.If you don't want to pay then you can take the meal as a guest of any of your friends in the hostel by entering the name of your friend in a register kept with the receptionist
Mess Secretary is responsible for canteen.
As soon as the student secures a job in Category-A, he/she will be out of the Placement Session and will not be allowed to appear for any other company. (Category-A are companies having CTC > 7 LPA ). For more info refer this doc : http://www.iitr.ac.in/Placements/pages/assets/docs/students.pdf
Contact student reps in the Placement Office.
A student rejecting a Pre-Placement Offer (PPO) will be allowed to apply to companies offering CTC greater than the CTC offered in the PPO and will specifically be not allowed to appear for the company of which he/she has rejected the PPO.
Yes, you can apply for research internships after you have got an on campus intern but applying to corporates or startups will get you debarred from placement process next year.
Most of the companies on initial days do have a CGPA criteria of 7 or 7.5 but as the process moves on the criteria relaxes.
Yes, if you don't attend then disciplinary actions can be taken against you. You should attend the PPT and make notes about the CTC and the profile which helps you later in the process.
It is normal to get your offer letter by March first or second week. For further info, you can contact the student rep at the placement office.
It varies from year to year, but companies like WorksApp, Oracle and Facebook do come to campus.
Rarely we get a company which selects students for internship abroad.
Yes, it does. But do not be disheartened if you have a low CGPA because students even with low CGPA can get selected in companies like microsoft or worksapp.
You can sit for interviews for more than one company in a day in which case the student reps help you to appear for all the companies. Finally you are selected according to the resulls and the priority which you have filled.
You can find them at the placement online portal. Go hunt yourself. Cheers!
Go to Channel-I -> Apps -> Placement Online. To go to the Internship portal, click on "Internship Online" on top right hand side of the page.
For placement, if the resume verification is over then you can contact any student rep who will help you make the changes under their supervision otherwise you can go on the intern/placement portal and change your resume.
You can find them sorted out according to the branch and company, in the "Extras" section of the placement onine portal.
The online tests start in September and the internviews in December.
Companies start visiting the campus around August and then starts the PROCESS.
Any Student who is offered Internship through Placement Office is NOT allowed to reject the offer. Violations will lead to debarment from first 10 days of next Placement Session. However, exceptions are made if the second Intern is a Research Intern in Universities for which application was submitted prior to receiving the first intern.
The student can withdraw his/her application to a company ONLY if the last date of application to that particular company is NOT over. There can no withdrawals once the application modification closes.
For absenteeism in any test, interview or any selection process which an applicant has to attend as part of a company’s recruiting procedure, first time defaulters would be debarred from 5 Companies and second time from the complete placement procedure. However, in case of proper reason, contact Student reps in advance.
Correct and Verifiable information should be produced in the Resume. If any student is found violating this rule, he/she will be de-registered from the Internship Session.
Yes
You need verification for everything mentioned in your resume (past internships, projects, Awards, positions and extra-curriculars and references)
Yes, there is still a scope left. Companies do come in March/April.
Visit: http://wona.co.in/2017/03/placements-16-17
Around 8-10 lacs. Check this for more: http://wona.co.in/2017/03/placements-16-17
8 is the CGPA you are looking for.
Computer Science And Engineering
Microsoft, Goldman Sachs , Samsung and a total of 150 more.
It varies.
Companies like Oracle International, Microsoft etc
None.
No, it is not included.
Can be some groups or firm names providing investment/ funding.
Normally one credit is assigned to one hour lecture or one hour tutorial or two hours of practical classes.
There is a master resume which is verified by TPO.  You can hide some of the stuff as your wish to customize it according to a particular company. 
Yes, there is a second round.
Approx 25% increase from past 2 years
A.K. Ghosh, (Previously in IIT Kanpur)
