How many credits do I need to get a degree?
How is Grading done in IIT roorkee?
How is GPA calculated?
How can one change his/ her branch?
What is Merit Cum Means(MCM) Scholarship?
What is TBLS?
What are Honors and Minors Courses?
What is the attendance criteria?
How to gain credits?
When is Academic Registration held?
What is Subject registration?
What is Late Subject registration?
What is Late Registration?
How to pay late registration fees?
How to pay semester fees?
Can the fees be paid via loan?
How to change a course?
How to drop a course?
What if you fail a course in a semester?
How long it takes to complete B.tech.?
How can you change your name in the institute?
How to get a passport while at IIT Roorkee?
How to get a new ID Card?
What if I fail to appear for my exams?
What if I face disciplinary action?
Do I have to pass all the courses that are assigned to me?
What is educational tour?
How canteens I change departmental elective after registration?
How can I change Institute elective after registration?
I missed my mid term examination MTE paper, how can I apply for re-exam?
I missed my end term examination ETE paper, how can I apply for re-exam?
What is the procedure of applying for re-exam if I have back in a subject?
What grades will I get after appearing for re-exams because of back?
Is there any way to get grades better than 'D' in the subject with back?
I have attendance back in a subject. Am I eligible for re-exam?
My name is there on attendance shortage list published by prof. What are my options to avoid back?
What is the current grading sysytem followed at IIT Roorkee?
How can I increase my CG?
What is the procedure for branch change?
What if two people have same CG and applied for same branch change?
Are there any reserved seats for branch change?
What are the timings of computer centre(CC)?
What are the timings of the Library?
How are the credits assigned to courses ?
What is the need of Dissertation for students pursuing course in integrated 5-year?
Does MOU intend to create a any legally binding rights?
What do we mean by JAB?
In which case only can self study course be given to a student?
Can a 5 year course student change brach to a 4 year course?
What does three numbers in the bracket denoted by L-T-P implies?
How is Practical Training Evaluated?
What is tie breaking criteria for brach change in case of same SGPA?
How can someone complete submit registration if he/she is on summer internship?
How to make a bonafide?
How to make a transcript?
Whats CCB?
How to get a new icard?
Any facility for alumni to book KIH or NC Nigam for lunch/dinner get-together only for formal purposes?
How to get a new grade sheet in case of losing it?
What is SURA?
What are the different offices in Main Building?
How to get medical reimbursement?
How to get funding for Conferences?
How to get an audit/credit course?
How to get your discrepancy in Subject Registration resolved?
How to get a SURA Project?
How to get approval for staying in Winter?
How to get approval for staying in Summer?
What are the meeting timings with Dean Academics?
How to get a budget approved for a field trip?
How much amount of deposit will be refunded if a student leaves he institute after the date of registration?
Alumni names related to a certain field that can be contacted for guidance?
Can a student get Aditya Birla Scholarship as well as institute scholarship that is MCM?
What is Tinkering Lab?
How to book EC Auditorium?
Where is Alpahar or University Canteen?
What are Timings of Students Club or Under Graduate (UG) Club?
What are the timings of girls hostels?
What are the names of the boys hostels?
What are the names of the girls hostels?
What are the timings of hostel canteens?
What are the timings of Georgia?
What are some good places to have dinner near IIT Roorkee?
What sports can one play at IIT Roorkee?
How do I get my swimming card?
What is Institute Computer Centre (ICC)? 
How to get your IITR email ID and password modified?
Where is CBRI Canteen?
How many canteens are there?
Where is TinTin?
Places to hangout in IIT R?
Where is Old Nesci?
What are some Hangout Places for couples?
Famous party places at IIT Roorkee?
Which bhawan has best infrastructure?
Which Bhawan is most likely to fall during an earthquake?
Where is Amul Parlour located inside campus?
What are all the ATM locations inside campus?
Where is the souvenir shop in campus?
Where is the Computer shop in campus?
What are the timings of IITR Hospital?
Where is the Railway Counter inside campus?
Where is the physiotherapy center inside campus?
Where can I find cobblers inside the campus?
Where can I find cycle repair shops inside the campus?
What is hanger?
Whwre are OATs( Open Air Theatre )?
Where is HEC( Himalayan Explorers Club ) office ?
What is SDS?
What is IMG?
What is NCC?
What is NSS?
What is HEC?
What is GG?
What is SAC?
What is Cultural Council?
What is Audio Section?
What is Choreography Section?
What is Dramatics Section?
What is Light Section?
What is Literary Section?
What is Music Section?
What is Program Management Section?
What is Watch Out!?
What is Kshitij ?
What is Cinesec?
What is CEC?
What is EDC?
What is IEEE?
What is EESS?
What is MIESS?
What is SAE?
What is ASME?
What is ACM?
Can I eat in any other mess except my Bhawan?
Who among bhawan council is responsible for the Canteen?
Can a student appear for another company after he is selected for one/another in placements?
I have been selected for internship in a company but no acknowledgement has been received from the company's side? What to do?
What are the rules and regulations for rejecting a Pre-Placement Offer (PPO)? 
Can you apply for foreign internship after you have got an on campus internship?
Do companies allow students to apply for internship or placements with CGPA less than 6?
Is it necessary to attend the Pre Placement talk of the company you have applied to?
What you I do if I haven't got my offer letter from the company I have been selected in?
Do international companies come for Placement?
Do international companies come for Internship?
Does CGPA matter in Placement process?
What if I'm selected for more than one or multiple companies on the same day in Placements?
Where can I find the list of companies that came last year?
How can I access the placement or intern portal?
How can i modify my resume?
Where can I see the placements results of previous years?
When does the placement season start?
When does the internship season start?
Can I reject an Internship offer if received another internship?
Till when can I withdraw my Intership application?
What if I am not able to attend a company's recruitment procedure?
What all achievements/information can be mentioned in my resume?
Do consultancy companies come for placements?
What documents do I need for resume verification?
I haven't been selected for any internship and it's February/ March/ April now. Is there any scope left?
What are the placement stats for IIT Roorkee?
What is the average package that a student gets in IIT Roorkee?
What can be effective CG for a circuit branch student to have approx all companies open for placement? 
Which branch has the highest average package?
What are the major companies that visited IIT Roorkee last year?
What is the minimum cg required for various companies like adobe, microsoft etc?
Which companies provide international offers? 
What is the minimum CGPA required to be eligible for Goldman Sachs placement process?
Is period of rustication included in the max 6/7 years provided for the course completion?
Methods to get funding and platform for start up in IIT or implenting an idea?
How are the credits assigned to courses ?
Is resume same for all the companies or can it be customized? 
Is there a second round for placements too?
What is the percentage increase in avg ctc per year in recent past in iitr?
who is the director of iit roorkee
